support/oidc-discovery-provider/README.md, before:

# SPIRE OIDC Discovery Provider

The SPIRE OIDC Discovery Provider is a small helper that provides a minimal
implementation of a subset of the OIDC discovery document as related to
exposing a JSON Web Key Set (JWKS) for JSON Web Token (JWT) validation.

It provides the following endpoints:

| Verb  | Path                                | Description                               |
| ----- | ------------------------------------| ------------------------------------------|
| `GET` | `/.well-known/openid-configuration` | Returns the OIDC discovery document   |
| `GET` | `/keys`                             | Returns the JWKS for JWT validation       |

The provider by default relies on ACME to obtain TLS certificates that it uses to
serve the documents securely.

## Configuration

### Command Line Configuration

The provider has the following command line flags:

| Flag         | Description                                                      | Default                       |
| ------------ | -----------------------------------------------------------------| ----------------------------- |
| `-config`    | Path on disk to the [HCL Configuration](#hcl-configuration) file | `oidc-discovery-provider.conf` |


### HCL Configuration

The configuration file is **required** by the provider. It contains
[HCL](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl) encoded configurables.

| Key                | Type    | Required? | Description                              | Default |
| ------------------ | --------| ---------| ----------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `acme`             | section | required | Provides the ACME configuration. | |
| `domain`           | string  | required | The domain the provider is being served from | |
| `log_format`       | string  | optional | Format of the logs (either `"TEXT"` or `"JSON"`) | `""` |
| `log_level`        | string  | required | Log level (one of `"error"`,`"warn"`,`"info"`,`"debug"`) | `"info"` |
| `log_path`         | string  | optional | Path on disk to write the log | |
| `log_requests`     | bool    | optional | If true, all HTTP requests are logged at the debug level | false |
| `registration_api` | section | required\* | Provides Registration API details. Required unless the `workload_api` section is defined | |
| `workload_api`     | section | required\* | Provides Workload API details. Required unless the `registration_api` section is defined | |

\* - Either `registration_api` or `workload_api` must be defined. The provider relies on one of these two APIs to obtain the public key material used to construct the JWKS document.

#### ACME Section

| Key                | Type    | Required?   | Description                              | Default |
| ------------------ | --------| ----------- | ----------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `cache_dir`        | string  | optional    | The directory used to cache the ACME-obtained credentials. Disabled if explicitly set to the empty string | `"./.acme-cache"` |
| `directory_url`    | string  | optional    | The ACME directory URL to use. Uses Let's Encrypt if unset. | `"https://acme-v01.api.letsencrypt.org/directory"` |
| `email`            | string  | required    | The email address used to register with the ACME service | |
| `tos_accepted`     | bool    | required    | Indicates explicit acceptance of the ACME service Terms of Service. Must be true. | |

#### Registration API Section

| Key                | Type     | Required? | Description                              | Default |
| ------------------ | -------- | ---------| ----------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `socket_path`      | string   | required | Path on disk to the Registration API Unix Domain socket. | |
| `poll_interval`    | duration | optional | How often to poll for changes to the public key material. | `"10s"` |

#### Workload API Section

| Key                | Type     | Required? | Description                              | Default |
| ------------------ | -------- | ---------| ----------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `socket_path`      | string   | required | Path on disk to the Workload API Unix Domain socket. | |
| `poll_interval`    | duration | optional | How often to poll for changes to the public key material. | `"10s"` |
| `trust_domain`     | string   | required | Trust domain of the workload. This is used to pick the bundle out of the Workload API response. | |

### Examples

#### Registration API

```
log_level = "debug"
domain = "mypublicdomain.test"
acme {
    cache_dir = "/some/path/on/disk/to/cache/creds"
    tos_accepted = true
}
registration_api {
    socket_path = "/run/spire/sockets/registration.sock"
}
```

#### Workload API

```
log_level = "debug"
domain = "mypublicdomain.test"
acme {
    cache_dir = "/some/path/on/disk/to/cache/creds"
    tos_accepted = true
}
workload_api {
    socket_path = "/run/spire/sockets/agent.sock"
    trust_domain = "domain.test"
}
```

Commit message:

Support OIDC Discovery listening on a unix socket
This adds support for listening on a unix socket.  This is useful for combining
the OIDC Discovery Provider as part of a larger webserver, or as part of an app
mesh with a sidecar that expects unix sockets.

Signed-off-by: Matthew McPherrin <mmc@squareup.com>

support/oidc-discovery-provider/README.md, after:

# SPIRE OIDC Discovery Provider

The SPIRE OIDC Discovery Provider is a small helper that provides a minimal
implementation of a subset of the OIDC discovery document as related to
exposing a JSON Web Key Set (JWKS) for JSON Web Token (JWT) validation.

It provides the following endpoints:

| Verb  | Path                                | Description                               |
| ----- | ------------------------------------| ------------------------------------------|
| `GET` | `/.well-known/openid-configuration` | Returns the OIDC discovery document   |
| `GET` | `/keys`                             | Returns the JWKS for JWT validation       |

The provider by default relies on ACME to obtain TLS certificates that it uses to
serve the documents securely.

## Configuration

### Command Line Configuration

The provider has the following command line flags:

| Flag         | Description                                                      | Default                       |
| ------------ | -----------------------------------------------------------------| ----------------------------- |
| `-config`    | Path on disk to the [HCL Configuration](#hcl-configuration) file | `oidc-discovery-provider.conf` |


### HCL Configuration

The configuration file is **required** by the provider. It contains
[HCL](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl) encoded configurables.

| Key                  | Type    | Required? | Description                              | Default |
| -------------------- | --------| ---------| ----------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `acme`               | section | optional | Provides the ACME configuration. | |
| `domain`             | string  | required | The domain the provider is being served from | |
| `listen_socket_path` | string  | optional | Path on disk to listen with a Unix Domain Socket | |
| `log_format`         | string  | optional | Format of the logs (either `"TEXT"` or `"JSON"`) | `""` |
| `log_level`          | string  | required | Log level (one of `"error"`,`"warn"`,`"info"`,`"debug"`) | `"info"` |
| `log_path`           | string  | optional | Path on disk to write the log | |
| `log_requests`       | bool    | optional | If true, all HTTP requests are logged at the debug level | false |
| `registration_api`   | section | required\* | Provides Registration API details. Required unless the `workload_api` section is defined | |
| `workload_api`       | section | required\* | Provides Workload API details. Required unless the `registration_api` section is defined | |

Either the `acme` or `listen_socket_path` must be defined.

\* - Either `registration_api` or `workload_api` must be defined. The provider relies on one of these two APIs to obtain the public key material used to construct the JWKS document.

#### ACME Section

| Key                | Type    | Required?   | Description                              | Default |
| ------------------ | --------| ----------- | ----------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `cache_dir`        | string  | optional    | The directory used to cache the ACME-obtained credentials. Disabled if explicitly set to the empty string | `"./.acme-cache"` |
| `directory_url`    | string  | optional    | The ACME directory URL to use. Uses Let's Encrypt if unset. | `"https://acme-v01.api.letsencrypt.org/directory"` |
| `email`            | string  | required    | The email address used to register with the ACME service | |
| `tos_accepted`     | bool    | required    | Indicates explicit acceptance of the ACME service Terms of Service. Must be true. | |

#### Registration API Section

| Key                | Type     | Required? | Description                              | Default |
| ------------------ | -------- | ---------| ----------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `socket_path`      | string   | required | Path on disk to the Registration API Unix Domain socket. | |
| `poll_interval`    | duration | optional | How often to poll for changes to the public key material. | `"10s"` |

#### Workload API Section

| Key                | Type     | Required? | Description                              | Default |
| ------------------ | -------- | ---------| ----------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `socket_path`      | string   | required | Path on disk to the Workload API Unix Domain socket. | |
| `poll_interval`    | duration | optional | How often to poll for changes to the public key material. | `"10s"` |
| `trust_domain`     | string   | required | Trust domain of the workload. This is used to pick the bundle out of the Workload API response. | |

### Examples

#### Registration API

```
log_level = "debug"
domain = "mypublicdomain.test"
acme {
    cache_dir = "/some/path/on/disk/to/cache/creds"
    tos_accepted = true
}
registration_api {
    socket_path = "/run/spire/sockets/registration.sock"
}
```

#### Workload API

```
log_level = "debug"
domain = "mypublicdomain.test"
acme {
    cache_dir = "/some/path/on/disk/to/cache/creds"
    tos_accepted = true
}
workload_api {
    socket_path = "/run/spire/sockets/agent.sock"
    trust_domain = "domain.test"
}
```
