examples/k8s/simple_psat/README.md, before:

# Simple SPIRE deployment using PSAT node attestor

This configuration is an example of a simple SPIRE deployment for Kubernetes that uses [PSAT node attestor](../../../doc/plugin_server_nodeattestor_k8s_psat.md).

+ The SPIRE [server](spire-server.yaml) runs as a StatefulSet using a
  PersistentVolumeClaim.
+ The SPIRE [agent](spire-agent.yaml) runs as a DaemonSet.

Both SPIRE agent and server run in the **spire** namespace, using service
accounts of **spire-server** and **spire-agent**.
Also RBAC authorization policies are set in order to guarantee access to certain API server resources.

## Usage

### Configuration

The following flags must be passed to the Kubernetes API server to properly run this PSAT attestor example:
+ `service-account-signing-key-file`
+ `service-account-key-file`
+ `service-account-issuer`
+ `service-account-api-audiences`

If you are using minikube, make sure it is started as follows:
```
minikube start --extra-config=apiserver.authorization-mode=RBAC \
               --extra-config=apiserver.service-account-signing-key-file=/var/lib/minikube/certs/sa.key \
               --extra-config=apiserver.service-account-key-file=/var/lib/minikube/certs/sa.pub \
               --extra-config=apiserver.service-account-issuer=api \
               --extra-config=apiserver.service-account-api-audiences=api
```

### Deployment

Start the server StatefulSet:

```
$ kubectl apply -f spire-server.yaml
```

Start the agent DaemonSet:

```
$ kubectl apply -f spire-agent.yaml
```

The agent should automatically attest to SPIRE server.

Commit message:

Make PSAT agent attestor to get node name from kubelet
Signed-off-by: Marcos G. Yedro <marcosyedro@gmail.com>

examples/k8s/simple_psat/README.md, after:

# Simple SPIRE deployment using PSAT node attestor

This configuration is an example of a simple SPIRE deployment for Kubernetes that uses [PSAT node attestor](../../../doc/plugin_server_nodeattestor_k8s_psat.md).

+ The SPIRE [server](spire-server.yaml) runs as a StatefulSet using a
  PersistentVolumeClaim.
+ The SPIRE [agent](spire-agent.yaml) runs as a DaemonSet.

Both SPIRE agent and server run in the **spire** namespace, using service
accounts of **spire-server** and **spire-agent**.
Also RBAC authorization policies are set in order to guarantee access to certain API server resources.

## Usage

### Configuration

The following flags must be passed to the Kubernetes API server to properly run this PSAT attestor example:
+ `service-account-signing-key-file`
+ `service-account-key-file`
+ `service-account-issuer`
+ `service-account-api-audiences`

The following flags must be passed to the kubelet to properly run this PSAT attestor example:
+ `authentication-token-webhook=true`

If you are using minikube, make sure it is started as follows:
```
minikube start --extra-config=apiserver.authorization-mode=RBAC \
               --extra-config=apiserver.service-account-signing-key-file=/var/lib/minikube/certs/sa.key \
               --extra-config=apiserver.service-account-key-file=/var/lib/minikube/certs/sa.pub \
               --extra-config=apiserver.service-account-issuer=api \
               --extra-config=apiserver.service-account-api-audiences=api,spire-server \
               --extra-config=kubelet.authentication-token-webhook=true
```

### Deployment

Start the server StatefulSet:

```
$ kubectl apply -f spire-server.yaml
```

Start the agent DaemonSet:

```
$ kubectl apply -f spire-agent.yaml
```

The agent should automatically attest to SPIRE server.
