test/integration/suites/upgrade/README.md, before:

# Upgrade Suite

## Description

This suite tests a simple upgrade step from SPIRE from one version to the next.

It does the following in order:

1. Brings up the old SPIRE server and agent
1. Obtains an SVID from the agent
1. Upgrades the SPIRE server
1. Obtains an SVID from the agent (making sure it has rotated)
1. Upgrades the SPIRE agent
1. Obtains an SVID from the agent (making sure it has rotated)

### Upgrading SPIRE Server/Agent

The "upgrade" is performed by bringing down the container running the old
version and starting the container running the new version. The containers
share configuration and data directory via a series of shared volumes.

### Checking for rotation

To check for rotation, the SVID is written to disk at each step. It is then
checked against the SVID for the previous step to make sure it has been
rotated.

## Future considerations

- Provide stronger "+/- 1" SPIRE compatability checks.
- Automatically use the last release for the OLD version (right now the version is hard coded in the docker-compose.yaml)

Commit message:

Robust upgrade integration test
Does an upgrade test from each supported version to the current.

Signed-off-by: Andrew Harding <azdagron@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Andres Vega <av@scytale.io>

test/integration/suites/upgrade/README.md, after:

# Upgrade Suite

## Description

This suite tests a simple upgrade step from SPIRE from one version to the next.

It does the following in order:

1. Brings up the _old_ SPIRE server and agent
1. Obtains an SVID from the _old_ agent
1. Upgrades the SPIRE server
1. Obtains an SVID from the _old_ agent (making sure it has rotated)
1. Upgrades the SPIRE agent
1. Obtains an SVID from the _new_ agent (making sure it has rotated)

### Upgrading SPIRE Server/Agent

The _upgrade_ is performed by bringing down the container running the _old_
version and starting the container running the _new_ version. The containers
share configuration and data directory via a series of shared volumes.

### Checking for rotation

To check for rotation, the SVID is written to disk at each step. It is then
checked against the SVID for the previous step to make sure it has been
rotated.

### Maintenance

#### After a SPIRE release

The versions.txt should be updated to add the new version.

#### Before a "Major" SPIRE Release

When preparing to release a new "major" release (_minor_ release pre-1.0,
_major_ release at and after 1.0), the versions.txt file should be updated to
remove the "major"-2 versions, since we only support upgrading from one "major"
build to the next. For example, if the versions.txt file contained all 0.8.x
and 0.9.x versions, the 0.8.x versions should be removed as part of the 0.10.0
release.

## Future considerations

- Provide additional "+/- 1" SPIRE compatability checks, as currently we only
  test that the SPIRE components start up and that SVIDs rotate.
