proto/server/nodeattestor/README_pb.md, before:

# Protocol Documentation
<a name="top"/>

## Table of Contents

- [plugin.proto](#plugin.proto)
    - [ConfigureRequest](#spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest)
    - [ConfigureResponse](#spire.common.plugin.ConfigureResponse)
    - [GetPluginInfoRequest](#spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest)
    - [GetPluginInfoResponse](#spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoResponse)
  
  
  
  

- [common.proto](#common.proto)
    - [AttestationData](#spire.common.AttestationData)
    - [Empty](#spire.common.Empty)
    - [RegistrationEntries](#spire.common.RegistrationEntries)
    - [RegistrationEntry](#spire.common.RegistrationEntry)
    - [Selector](#spire.common.Selector)
    - [Selectors](#spire.common.Selectors)
  
  
  
  

- [nodeattestor.proto](#nodeattestor.proto)
    - [AttestRequest](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.AttestRequest)
    - [AttestResponse](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.AttestResponse)
  
  
  
    - [NodeAttestor](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.NodeAttestor)
  

- [Scalar Value Types](#scalar-value-types)



<a name="plugin.proto"/>
<p align="right"><a href="#top">Top</a></p>

## plugin.proto



<a name="spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest"/>

### ConfigureRequest
Represents the plugin-specific configuration string.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| configuration | [string](#string) |  | The configuration for the plugin. |






<a name="spire.common.plugin.ConfigureResponse"/>

### ConfigureResponse
Represents a list of configuration problems
found in the configuration string.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| errorList | [string](#string) | repeated | A list of errors |






<a name="spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest"/>

### GetPluginInfoRequest
Represents an empty request.






<a name="spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoResponse"/>

### GetPluginInfoResponse
Represents the plugin metadata.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| name | [string](#string) |  |  |
| category | [string](#string) |  |  |
| type | [string](#string) |  |  |
| description | [string](#string) |  |  |
| dateCreated | [string](#string) |  |  |
| location | [string](#string) |  |  |
| version | [string](#string) |  |  |
| author | [string](#string) |  |  |
| company | [string](#string) |  |  |





 

 

 

 



<a name="common.proto"/>
<p align="right"><a href="#top">Top</a></p>

## common.proto



<a name="spire.common.AttestationData"/>

### AttestationData
A type which contains attestation data for specific platform.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| type | [string](#string) |  | Type of attestation to perform. |
| data | [bytes](#bytes) |  | The attestation data. |






<a name="spire.common.Empty"/>

### Empty
Represents an empty message






<a name="spire.common.RegistrationEntries"/>

### RegistrationEntries
A list of registration entries.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| entries | [RegistrationEntry](#spire.common.RegistrationEntry) | repeated | A list of RegistrationEntry. |






<a name="spire.common.RegistrationEntry"/>

### RegistrationEntry
This is a curated record that the Server uses to set up and
manage the various registered nodes and workloads that are controlled by it.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| selectors | [Selector](#spire.common.Selector) | repeated | A list of selectors. |
| parent_id | [string](#string) |  | The SPIFFE ID of an entity that is authorized to attest the validity of a selector |
| spiffe_id | [string](#string) |  | The SPIFFE ID is a structured string used to identify a resource or caller. It is defined as a URI comprising a “trust domain” and an associated path. |
| ttl | [int32](#int32) |  | Time to live. |
| fb_spiffe_ids | [string](#string) | repeated | A list of federated bundle spiffe ids. |
| entry_id | [string](#string) |  | Entry ID |






<a name="spire.common.Selector"/>

### Selector
A type which describes the conditions under which a registration
entry is matched.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| type | [string](#string) |  | A selector type represents the type of attestation used in attesting the entity (Eg: AWS, K8). |
| value | [string](#string) |  | The value to be attested. |






<a name="spire.common.Selectors"/>

### Selectors
Represents a type with a list of NodeResolution.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| entries | [Selector](#spire.common.Selector) | repeated | A list of NodeResolution. |





 

 

 

 



<a name="nodeattestor.proto"/>
<p align="right"><a href="#top">Top</a></p>

## nodeattestor.proto



<a name="spire.agent.nodeattestor.AttestRequest"/>

### AttestRequest
Represents a request to attest a node.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| attestationData | [.spire.common.AttestationData](#spire.agent.nodeattestor..spire.common.AttestationData) |  | A type which contains attestation data for specific platform. |
| attestedBefore | [bool](#bool) |  | Is true if the Base SPIFFE ID is present in the Attested Node table. |
| response | [bytes](#bytes) |  | Challenge response |






<a name="spire.agent.nodeattestor.AttestResponse"/>

### AttestResponse
Represents a response when attesting a node.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| valid | [bool](#bool) |  | True/False |
| baseSPIFFEID | [string](#string) |  | Used for the Server to validate the SPIFFE Id in the Certificate signing request. |
| challenge | [bytes](#bytes) |  | Challenge required for attestation |





 

 

 


<a name="spire.agent.nodeattestor.NodeAttestor"/>

### NodeAttestor


| Method Name | Request Type | Response Type | Description |
| ----------- | ------------ | ------------- | ------------|
| Attest | [AttestRequest](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.AttestRequest) | [AttestResponse](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.AttestRequest) | Attesta a node. |
| Configure | [spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest](#spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest) | [spire.common.plugin.ConfigureResponse](#spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest) | Responsible for configuration of the plugin. |
| GetPluginInfo | [spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest](#spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest) | [spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoResponse](#spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest) | Returns the version and related metadata of the installed plugin. |

 



## Scalar Value Types

| .proto Type | Notes | C++ Type | Java Type | Python Type |
| ----------- | ----- | -------- | --------- | ----------- |
| <a name="double" /> double |  | double | double | float |
| <a name="float" /> float |  | float | float | float |
| <a name="int32" /> int32 | Uses variable-length encoding. Inefficient for encoding negative numbers – if your field is likely to have negative values, use sint32 instead. | int32 | int | int |
| <a name="int64" /> int64 | Uses variable-length encoding. Inefficient for encoding negative numbers – if your field is likely to have negative values, use sint64 instead. | int64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="uint32" /> uint32 | Uses variable-length encoding. | uint32 | int | int/long |
| <a name="uint64" /> uint64 | Uses variable-length encoding. | uint64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="sint32" /> sint32 | Uses variable-length encoding. Signed int value. These more efficiently encode negative numbers than regular int32s. | int32 | int | int |
| <a name="sint64" /> sint64 | Uses variable-length encoding. Signed int value. These more efficiently encode negative numbers than regular int64s. | int64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="fixed32" /> fixed32 | Always four bytes. More efficient than uint32 if values are often greater than 2^28. | uint32 | int | int |
| <a name="fixed64" /> fixed64 | Always eight bytes. More efficient than uint64 if values are often greater than 2^56. | uint64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="sfixed32" /> sfixed32 | Always four bytes. | int32 | int | int |
| <a name="sfixed64" /> sfixed64 | Always eight bytes. | int64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="bool" /> bool |  | bool | boolean | boolean |
| <a name="string" /> string | A string must always contain UTF-8 encoded or 7-bit ASCII text. | string | String | str/unicode |
| <a name="bytes" /> bytes | May contain any arbitrary sequence of bytes. | string | ByteString | str |

Commit message:

Added optional list of selectors to nodeattestor.AttestResponse. Fixed some comments in common.proto.
Signed-off-by: martincapello <m.a.capello@gmail.com>

proto/server/nodeattestor/README_pb.md, after:

# Protocol Documentation
<a name="top"/>

## Table of Contents

- [plugin.proto](#plugin.proto)
    - [ConfigureRequest](#spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest)
    - [ConfigureResponse](#spire.common.plugin.ConfigureResponse)
    - [GetPluginInfoRequest](#spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest)
    - [GetPluginInfoResponse](#spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoResponse)
  
  
  
  

- [common.proto](#common.proto)
    - [AttestationData](#spire.common.AttestationData)
    - [Empty](#spire.common.Empty)
    - [RegistrationEntries](#spire.common.RegistrationEntries)
    - [RegistrationEntry](#spire.common.RegistrationEntry)
    - [Selector](#spire.common.Selector)
    - [Selectors](#spire.common.Selectors)
  
  
  
  

- [nodeattestor.proto](#nodeattestor.proto)
    - [AttestRequest](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.AttestRequest)
    - [AttestResponse](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.AttestResponse)
  
  
  
    - [NodeAttestor](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.NodeAttestor)
  

- [Scalar Value Types](#scalar-value-types)



<a name="plugin.proto"/>
<p align="right"><a href="#top">Top</a></p>

## plugin.proto



<a name="spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest"/>

### ConfigureRequest
Represents the plugin-specific configuration string.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| configuration | [string](#string) |  | The configuration for the plugin. |






<a name="spire.common.plugin.ConfigureResponse"/>

### ConfigureResponse
Represents a list of configuration problems
found in the configuration string.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| errorList | [string](#string) | repeated | A list of errors |






<a name="spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest"/>

### GetPluginInfoRequest
Represents an empty request.






<a name="spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoResponse"/>

### GetPluginInfoResponse
Represents the plugin metadata.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| name | [string](#string) |  |  |
| category | [string](#string) |  |  |
| type | [string](#string) |  |  |
| description | [string](#string) |  |  |
| dateCreated | [string](#string) |  |  |
| location | [string](#string) |  |  |
| version | [string](#string) |  |  |
| author | [string](#string) |  |  |
| company | [string](#string) |  |  |





 

 

 

 



<a name="common.proto"/>
<p align="right"><a href="#top">Top</a></p>

## common.proto



<a name="spire.common.AttestationData"/>

### AttestationData
A type which contains attestation data for specific platform.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| type | [string](#string) |  | Type of attestation to perform. |
| data | [bytes](#bytes) |  | The attestation data. |






<a name="spire.common.Empty"/>

### Empty
Represents an empty message






<a name="spire.common.RegistrationEntries"/>

### RegistrationEntries
A list of registration entries.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| entries | [RegistrationEntry](#spire.common.RegistrationEntry) | repeated | A list of RegistrationEntry. |






<a name="spire.common.RegistrationEntry"/>

### RegistrationEntry
This is a curated record that the Server uses to set up and
manage the various registered nodes and workloads that are controlled by it.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| selectors | [Selector](#spire.common.Selector) | repeated | A list of selectors. |
| parent_id | [string](#string) |  | The SPIFFE ID of an entity that is authorized to attest the validity of a selector |
| spiffe_id | [string](#string) |  | The SPIFFE ID is a structured string used to identify a resource or caller. It is defined as a URI comprising a “trust domain” and an associated path. |
| ttl | [int32](#int32) |  | Time to live. |
| fb_spiffe_ids | [string](#string) | repeated | A list of federated bundle spiffe ids. |
| entry_id | [string](#string) |  | Entry ID |






<a name="spire.common.Selector"/>

### Selector
A type which describes the conditions under which a registration
entry is matched.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| type | [string](#string) |  | A selector type represents the type of attestation used in attesting the entity (Eg: AWS, K8). |
| value | [string](#string) |  | The value to be attested. |






<a name="spire.common.Selectors"/>

### Selectors
Represents a type with a list of Selector.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| entries | [Selector](#spire.common.Selector) | repeated | A list of Selector. |





 

 

 

 



<a name="nodeattestor.proto"/>
<p align="right"><a href="#top">Top</a></p>

## nodeattestor.proto



<a name="spire.agent.nodeattestor.AttestRequest"/>

### AttestRequest
Represents a request to attest a node.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| attestationData | [.spire.common.AttestationData](#spire.agent.nodeattestor..spire.common.AttestationData) |  | A type which contains attestation data for specific platform. |
| attestedBefore | [bool](#bool) |  | Is true if the Base SPIFFE ID is present in the Attested Node table. |
| response | [bytes](#bytes) |  | Challenge response |






<a name="spire.agent.nodeattestor.AttestResponse"/>

### AttestResponse
Represents a response when attesting a node.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| valid | [bool](#bool) |  | True/False |
| baseSPIFFEID | [string](#string) |  | Used by the Server to validate the SPIFFE Id in the Certificate signing request. |
| challenge | [bytes](#bytes) |  | Challenge required for attestation |
| selectors | [.spire.common.Selector](#spire.agent.nodeattestor..spire.common.Selector) | repeated | Optional list of selectors |





 

 

 


<a name="spire.agent.nodeattestor.NodeAttestor"/>

### NodeAttestor


| Method Name | Request Type | Response Type | Description |
| ----------- | ------------ | ------------- | ------------|
| Attest | [AttestRequest](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.AttestRequest) | [AttestResponse](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.AttestRequest) | Attesta a node. |
| Configure | [spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest](#spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest) | [spire.common.plugin.ConfigureResponse](#spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest) | Responsible for configuration of the plugin. |
| GetPluginInfo | [spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest](#spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest) | [spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoResponse](#spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest) | Returns the version and related metadata of the installed plugin. |

 



## Scalar Value Types

| .proto Type | Notes | C++ Type | Java Type | Python Type |
| ----------- | ----- | -------- | --------- | ----------- |
| <a name="double" /> double |  | double | double | float |
| <a name="float" /> float |  | float | float | float |
| <a name="int32" /> int32 | Uses variable-length encoding. Inefficient for encoding negative numbers – if your field is likely to have negative values, use sint32 instead. | int32 | int | int |
| <a name="int64" /> int64 | Uses variable-length encoding. Inefficient for encoding negative numbers – if your field is likely to have negative values, use sint64 instead. | int64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="uint32" /> uint32 | Uses variable-length encoding. | uint32 | int | int/long |
| <a name="uint64" /> uint64 | Uses variable-length encoding. | uint64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="sint32" /> sint32 | Uses variable-length encoding. Signed int value. These more efficiently encode negative numbers than regular int32s. | int32 | int | int |
| <a name="sint64" /> sint64 | Uses variable-length encoding. Signed int value. These more efficiently encode negative numbers than regular int64s. | int64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="fixed32" /> fixed32 | Always four bytes. More efficient than uint32 if values are often greater than 2^28. | uint32 | int | int |
| <a name="fixed64" /> fixed64 | Always eight bytes. More efficient than uint64 if values are often greater than 2^56. | uint64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="sfixed32" /> sfixed32 | Always four bytes. | int32 | int | int |
| <a name="sfixed64" /> sfixed64 | Always eight bytes. | int64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="bool" /> bool |  | bool | boolean | boolean |
| <a name="string" /> string | A string must always contain UTF-8 encoded or 7-bit ASCII text. | string | String | str/unicode |
| <a name="bytes" /> bytes | May contain any arbitrary sequence of bytes. | string | ByteString | str |
