doc/plugin_server_upstreamca_disk.md, before:

# Server plugin: UpstreamCA "disk"

The `disk` plugin loads CA credentials from disk, using them to generate
intermediate signing certificates for the server's signing authority. The
intermediate certificates are minted against CSRs generated by the ServerCA
plugin.

The `disk` plugin reloads CA credentials on all CSR requests. If the
credentials cannot be loaded, then the previously loaded credentials will be used.
This provides two things: first, it ensures that the spire-server process does not
need to be restarted to load a new UpstreamCA from disk, providing a seamless rotation;
second, it ensures that a failed disk does not effect a running spire-server until the
loaded UpstreamCA expires.

The plugin accepts the following configuration options:

| Configuration   | Description                                          |
| ----------------| ---------------------------------------------------- |
| ttl             | The TTL for issued certificates                      |
| cert_file_path  | Path to the "upstream" CA certificate                |
| key_file_path   | Path to the "upstream" CA key file                   |
| bundle_file_path| Path to the trust bundle that signed the upstream CA |

The `disk` plugin is able to function as either a root CA, or join an existing PKI.

When joining an existing PKI, the trust bundle for that PKI MUST be set explicitly
using the `bundle_file_path` option; this MUST contain the certificates of the trusted
roots for the PKI being joined in PEM format. When using the `bundle_file_path` option
`cert_file_path` MUST contain a chain of certificates, in PEM format, up to the trusted 
root. 

When functioning as a root CA, the trust bundle is unused. The `cert_file_path` MUST contain
exactly one certificate which is self-signed and `key_file_path` MUST contain the key for
that certificate.

Key files must contain a single PEM encoded key. The supported key types are EC (ASN.1 or PKCS8 encoded) or RSA (PKCS1 or PKCS8 encoded).

A sample configuration:

```
    UpstreamCA "disk" {
        plugin_data {
            ttl = "1h"
            cert_file_path = "conf/server/dummy_upstream_ca.crt"
            key_file_path = "conf/server/dummy_upstream_ca.key"
        }
    }
```

Commit message:

Add preferred TTL to upstream CA CSR request
- Simplifies TTL configuration in the common case (server ca_ttl
configurable now applies to both self-signed and upstream-signed server
CA certificates)
- Deprecates the TTL configurable in the Disk and AWSSecret upstream CAs

Signed-off-by: Andrew Harding <azdagron@gmail.com>

doc/plugin_server_upstreamca_disk.md, after:

# Server plugin: UpstreamCA "disk"

The `disk` plugin loads CA credentials from disk, using them to generate
intermediate signing certificates for the server's signing authority. The
intermediate certificates are minted against CSRs generated by the ServerCA
plugin.

The `disk` plugin reloads CA credentials on all CSR requests. If the
credentials cannot be loaded, then the previously loaded credentials will be used.
This provides two things: first, it ensures that the spire-server process does not
need to be restarted to load a new UpstreamCA from disk, providing a seamless rotation;
second, it ensures that a failed disk does not effect a running spire-server until the
loaded UpstreamCA expires.

The plugin accepts the following configuration options:

| Configuration   | Description                                          |
| ----------------| ---------------------------------------------------- |
| ttl             | The TTL for issued certificates (deprecated)         |
| cert_file_path  | Path to the "upstream" CA certificate                |
| key_file_path   | Path to the "upstream" CA key file                   |
| bundle_file_path| Path to the trust bundle that signed the upstream CA |

The `ttl` configurable is deprecated. When unset, the plugin will use the
preferred TTL from SPIRE server, corresponding to the SPIRE server `ca_ttl`
configurable.

The `disk` plugin is able to function as either a root CA, or join an existing PKI.

When joining an existing PKI, the trust bundle for that PKI MUST be set explicitly
using the `bundle_file_path` option; this MUST contain the certificates of the trusted
roots for the PKI being joined in PEM format. When using the `bundle_file_path` option
`cert_file_path` MUST contain a chain of certificates, in PEM format, up to the trusted 
root. 

When functioning as a root CA, the trust bundle is unused. The `cert_file_path` MUST contain
exactly one certificate which is self-signed and `key_file_path` MUST contain the key for
that certificate.

Key files must contain a single PEM encoded key. The supported key types are EC (ASN.1 or PKCS8 encoded) or RSA (PKCS1 or PKCS8 encoded).

A sample configuration:

```
    UpstreamCA "disk" {
        plugin_data {
            cert_file_path = "conf/server/dummy_upstream_ca.crt"
            key_file_path = "conf/server/dummy_upstream_ca.key"
        }
    }
```
