doc/plugin_agent_nodeattestor_k8s_sat.md, before:

# Agent plugin: NodeAttestor "k8s_sat"

*Must be used in conjunction with the server-side k8s_sat plugin*

The `k8s_sat` plugin attests nodes running in inside of Kubernetes. The agent
reads and provides the signed service account token to the server. It also
generates a one-time UUID that is also provided to the server.

The plugin generates SPIFFE IDs with the form:

```
spiffe://<trust domain>/spire/agent/k8s_sat/<cluster>/<UUID>
```

The main configuration accepts the following values:

| Configuration   | Description | Default                 |
| --------------- | ----------- | ----------------------- |
| `cluster`       | Name of the cluster. It must correspond to a cluster configured in the server plugin. |
| `token_path`      | Path to the service account token on disk | "/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token" |

The token path defaults to the default location kubernetes uses to place the token and should not need to be overriden in most cases.

A sample configuration with the default token path:

```
    NodeAttestor "k8s_sat" {
        plugin_data {
            cluster = "MyCluster"
        }
    }
```

## Security Considerations

At this time, the service account token does not contain claims that could be
used to strongly identify the node/daemonset/pod running the agent. This means
that any container running in a whitelisted service account can masquerade as
an agent, giving it access to any identity the agent is capable of issuing. It
is **STRONGLY** recommended that agents run under a dedicated service account.

It should be noted that due to the fact that SPIRE can't positively
identify a node using this method, it is not possible to directly authorize
identities for a distinct node or sets of nodes. Instead, this must be
accomplished indirectly using a service account and deployment that
leverages node affinity or node selectors.

Commit message:

No longer require agents to determine the agent ID
This updates the attestation flow to no longer require agent-side
plugins to calculate and provide the agent ID. If an agent ID is
provided, previous behavior is maintained across the agent and server.

When a server receives a CSR with an agent ID, it still determines
"attested before" status that it passes into the server-side plugin. It
verifies that the agent ID returned from the server-side plugin matches
that in the CSR.

If the CSR does not contain an agent ID, the server relies on
server-side plugins that do not support re-attestation to check if the
agent is already known via a new AgentStore host service.

All of the builtin plugins are updated to conform to the new
expectations. A base implementation is also provided for node attestors to
embed to ease the transition.

The agent node attestor unit tests are also revamped as part of
deprecating the functionality due to poor coverage and difficult setup
(increased coverage from ~65% to ~90%).

Signed-off-by: Andrew Harding <azdagron@gmail.com>

doc/plugin_agent_nodeattestor_k8s_sat.md, after:

# Agent plugin: NodeAttestor "k8s_sat"

*Must be used in conjunction with the server-side k8s_sat plugin*

The `k8s_sat` plugin attests nodes running in inside of Kubernetes. The agent
reads and provides the signed service account token to the server.

*Note: If your cluster supports [Service Account Token Volume Projection](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection)
you should instead consider using the `k8s_psat` attestor due to the [security considerations](#security-considerations) below.*

The server-side `k8s_sat` plugin generates a one-time UUID and generates a SPIFFE ID with the form:

```
spiffe://<trust domain>/spire/agent/k8s_sat/<cluster>/<UUID>
```

The main configuration accepts the following values:

| Configuration   | Description | Default                 |
| --------------- | ----------- | ----------------------- |
| `cluster`       | Name of the cluster. It must correspond to a cluster configured in the server plugin. |
| `token_path`      | Path to the service account token on disk | "/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token" |

The token path defaults to the default location kubernetes uses to place the token and should not need to be overriden in most cases.

A sample configuration with the default token path:

```
    NodeAttestor "k8s_sat" {
        plugin_data {
            cluster = "MyCluster"
        }
    }
```

## Security Considerations

At this time, the service account token does not contain claims that could be
used to strongly identify the node/daemonset/pod running the agent. This means
that any container running in a whitelisted service account can masquerade as
an agent, giving it access to any identity the agent is capable of issuing. It
is **STRONGLY** recommended that agents run under a dedicated service account.

It should be noted that due to the fact that SPIRE can't positively
identify a node using this method, it is not possible to directly authorize
identities for a distinct node or sets of nodes. Instead, this must be
accomplished indirectly using a service account and deployment that
leverages node affinity or node selectors.
