doc/plugin_server_upstreamca_awssecret.md, before:

# Server plugin: UpstreamCA "awssecret"

The `awssecret` plugin loads root CA credentials from AWS SecretsManager, using
them to generate intermediate signing certificates for the server's signing
authority. The intermediate certificates are minted against CSRs generated by
the ServerCA plugin.

The plugin accepts the following configuration options:

| Configuration           | Description                           |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| ttl                     | The TTL for issued certificates       |
| region                  | AWS Region to use                     |
| cert_file_arn           | ARN of the "upstream" CA certificate  |
| key_file_arn            | ARN of the "upstream" CA key file     |
| access_key_id           | AWS access key ID                     |
| secret_access_key       | AWS secret access key                 |
| secret_token            | AWS secret token                      |
| assume_role_arn         | ARN of role to assume                 |

A sample configuration:

```
    UpstreamCA "awssecret" {
        plugin_data {
            ttl = "1h",
            region = "us-west-2",
            cert_file_arn = "cert",
            key_file_arn = "key",
            access_key_id = "ACCESS_KEY_ID",
            secret_access_key = "SECRET_ACCESS_KEY",
            secret_token = "SECRET_TOKEN"
            assume_role_arn = "role"
        }
    }
```

Commit message:

Add preferred TTL to upstream CA CSR request
- Simplifies TTL configuration in the common case (server ca_ttl
configurable now applies to both self-signed and upstream-signed server
CA certificates)
- Deprecates the TTL configurable in the Disk and AWSSecret upstream CAs

Signed-off-by: Andrew Harding <azdagron@gmail.com>

doc/plugin_server_upstreamca_awssecret.md, after:

# Server plugin: UpstreamCA "awssecret"

The `awssecret` plugin loads root CA credentials from AWS SecretsManager, using
them to generate intermediate signing certificates for the server's signing
authority. The intermediate certificates are minted against CSRs generated by
the ServerCA plugin.

The plugin accepts the following configuration options:

| Configuration           | Description                                  |
| ----------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| ttl                     | The TTL for issued certificates (deprecated) |
| region                  | AWS Region to use                            |
| cert_file_arn           | ARN of the "upstream" CA certificate         |
| key_file_arn            | ARN of the "upstream" CA key file            |
| access_key_id           | AWS access key ID                            |
| secret_access_key       | AWS secret access key                        |
| secret_token            | AWS secret token                             |
| assume_role_arn         | ARN of role to assume                        |

+The `ttl` configurable is deprecated. When unset, the plugin will use the
+preferred TTL from SPIRE server, corresponding to the SPIRE server `ca_ttl`
+configurable.

A sample configuration:

```
    UpstreamCA "awssecret" {
        plugin_data {
            region = "us-west-2",
            cert_file_arn = "cert",
            key_file_arn = "key",
            access_key_id = "ACCESS_KEY_ID",
            secret_access_key = "SECRET_ACCESS_KEY",
            secret_token = "SECRET_TOKEN"
            assume_role_arn = "role"
        }
    }
```
