doc/plugin_server_nodeattestor_gcp_iit.md, before:

# Server plugin: NodeAttestor "gcp_iit"

*Must be used in conjunction with the agent-side gcp_iit plugin*

The `gcp_iit` plugin automatically attests instances using the [GCP Instance Identity Token](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/verifying-instance-identity). It also allows an operator to use GCP Instance IDs when defining SPIFFE ID attestation policies.
Agents attested by the gcp_iit attestor will be issued a SPIFFE ID like `spiffe://TRUST_DOMAIN/agent/gcp_iit/PROJECT_ID/INSTANCE_ID`
This plugin requires a whitelist of ProjectID from which nodes can be attested. This also means that you shouldn't run multiple trust domains from the same GCP project.

## Configuration

| Configuration           | Description                                                                                        | Default                                    |
|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| `projectid_whitelist`   | List of whitelisted ProjectIDs from which nodes can be attested.  |         |
| `use_instance_metadata` | If true, instance metadata is fetched from the Google Compute Engine API and used to augment the node selectors produced by the plugin. | false |

A sample configuration:

```
    NodeAttestor "gcp_iit" {
        plugin_data {
            projectid_whitelist = ["project-123"]
        }
    }
```

## Selectors

This plugin generates the following selectors based on information contained in the Instance Identity Token:

| Selector                   | Example                                                      | Description                               |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| `gcp_iit:project-id`       | `gcp_iit:project-id:big-kahuna-123456`                       | ID of the project containing the instance |
| `gcp_iit:zone`             | `gcp_iit:zone:us-west1-b`                                    | Zone containing the instance              |
| `gcp_iit:instance-name`    | `gcp_iit:instance-name:blog-server`                          | Name of the instance                      |

If `use_instance_metadata` is true, then the Google Compute Engine API is queried for instance metadata which is used to populate these additional selectors:

| Selector                   | Example                                                      | Description                                                                     |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `gcp_iit:tag`              | `gcp_iit:tag:blog-server`                                    | Instance tag (one selector per)
| `gcp_iit:sa`               | `gcp_iit:sa:123456789-compute@developer.gserviceaccount.com` | Service account (one selector per) 

## Authenticating with the Google Compute Engine API

The plugin uses the Application Default Credentials to authenticate with the Google Compute Engine API, as documented by [Setting Up Authentication For Server to Server](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production).

Commit message:

gcp_iit: add instance metadata and label selectors
Signed-off-by: Andrew Harding <azdagron@gmail.com>

doc/plugin_server_nodeattestor_gcp_iit.md, after:

# Server plugin: NodeAttestor "gcp_iit"

*Must be used in conjunction with the agent-side gcp_iit plugin*

The `gcp_iit` plugin automatically attests instances using the [GCP Instance Identity Token](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/verifying-instance-identity). It also allows an operator to use GCP Instance IDs when defining SPIFFE ID attestation policies.
Agents attested by the gcp_iit attestor will be issued a SPIFFE ID like `spiffe://TRUST_DOMAIN/agent/gcp_iit/PROJECT_ID/INSTANCE_ID`
This plugin requires a whitelist of ProjectID from which nodes can be attested. This also means that you shouldn't run multiple trust domains from the same GCP project.

## Configuration

| Configuration             | Description                                                                                        | Default                                    |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| `projectid_whitelist`     | List of whitelisted ProjectIDs from which nodes can be attested.  |         |
| `use_instance_metadata`   | If true, instance metadata is fetched from the Google Compute Engine API and used to augment the node selectors produced by the plugin. | false |
| `allowed_metadata_keys`   | Instance metadata keys considered for selectors | |
| `max_metadata_value_size` | Sets the maximum metadata value size considered by the plugin for selectors | 128 |

A sample configuration:

```
    NodeAttestor "gcp_iit" {
        plugin_data {
            projectid_whitelist = ["project-123"]
        }
    }
```

## Selectors

This plugin generates the following selectors based on information contained in the Instance Identity Token:

| Selector                   | Example                                                      | Description                               |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| `gcp_iit:project-id`       | `gcp_iit:project-id:big-kahuna-123456`                       | ID of the project containing the instance |
| `gcp_iit:zone`             | `gcp_iit:zone:us-west1-b`                                    | Zone containing the instance              |
| `gcp_iit:instance-name`    | `gcp_iit:instance-name:blog-server`                          | Name of the instance                      |

If `use_instance_metadata` is true, then the Google Compute Engine API is queried for instance metadata which is used to populate these additional selectors:

| Selector                   | Example                                                      | Description                                                                     |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `gcp_iit:tag`              | `gcp_iit:tag:blog-server`                                    | Instance tag (one selector per)
| `gcp_iit:sa`               | `gcp_iit:sa:123456789-compute@developer.gserviceaccount.com` | Service account (one selector per) 
| `gcp_iit:metadata`         | `gcp_iit:metadata:key:value`                                 | Instance metadata (see caveat below)
| `gcp_iit:label`            | `gcp_iit:label:key:value`                                    | Instance label

Instance metadata can hold large values up to 256KiB. Since not all metadata would be useful for node selection, and to prevent pushing potentially large amounts
of data into the datastore, only metadata values with keys in the `allowed_metadata_keys` configurable are considered. Additionally, any metadata value larger than the
`max_metadata_value_size` configurable is skipped.

Metadata and label values are optional. If the value isn't present, the corresponding selector will still have a trailing colon (i.e. `gcp_iit:label:<key>:`, `gcp_iit:metadata:<key>:`)

## Authenticating with the Google Compute Engine API

The plugin uses the Application Default Credentials to authenticate with the Google Compute Engine API, as documented by [Setting Up Authentication For Server to Server](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production).
