proto/spire/agent/nodeattestor/README_pb.md, before:

# Protocol Documentation
<a name="top"></a>

## Table of Contents

- [nodeattestor.proto](#nodeattestor.proto)
    - [FetchAttestationDataRequest](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.FetchAttestationDataRequest)
    - [FetchAttestationDataResponse](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.FetchAttestationDataResponse)
  
  
  
    - [NodeAttestor](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.NodeAttestor)
  

- [Scalar Value Types](#scalar-value-types)



<a name="nodeattestor.proto"></a>
<p align="right"><a href="#top">Top</a></p>

## nodeattestor.proto



<a name="spire.agent.nodeattestor.FetchAttestationDataRequest"></a>

### FetchAttestationDataRequest
Represents an empty request


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| challenge | [bytes](#bytes) |  |  |






<a name="spire.agent.nodeattestor.FetchAttestationDataResponse"></a>

### FetchAttestationDataResponse
Represents the attested data and base SPIFFE ID


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| attestationData | [spire.common.AttestationData](#spire.common.AttestationData) |  | A type which contains attestation data for specific platform |
| spiffeId | [string](#string) |  | SPIFFE ID |
| response | [bytes](#bytes) |  | response to the challenge (if challenge was present) * |





 

 

 


<a name="spire.agent.nodeattestor.NodeAttestor"></a>

### NodeAttestor


| Method Name | Request Type | Response Type | Description |
| ----------- | ------------ | ------------- | ------------|
| FetchAttestationData | [FetchAttestationDataRequest](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.FetchAttestationDataRequest) stream | [FetchAttestationDataResponse](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.FetchAttestationDataResponse) stream | Returns the node attestation data for specific platform and the generated Base SPIFFE ID for CSR formation |
| Configure | [.spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest](#spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest) | [.spire.common.plugin.ConfigureResponse](#spire.common.plugin.ConfigureResponse) | Applies the plugin configuration and returns configuration errors |
| GetPluginInfo | [.spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest](#spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest) | [.spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoResponse](#spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoResponse) | Returns the version and related metadata of the plugin |

 



## Scalar Value Types

| .proto Type | Notes | C++ Type | Java Type | Python Type |
| ----------- | ----- | -------- | --------- | ----------- |
| <a name="double" /> double |  | double | double | float |
| <a name="float" /> float |  | float | float | float |
| <a name="int32" /> int32 | Uses variable-length encoding. Inefficient for encoding negative numbers – if your field is likely to have negative values, use sint32 instead. | int32 | int | int |
| <a name="int64" /> int64 | Uses variable-length encoding. Inefficient for encoding negative numbers – if your field is likely to have negative values, use sint64 instead. | int64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="uint32" /> uint32 | Uses variable-length encoding. | uint32 | int | int/long |
| <a name="uint64" /> uint64 | Uses variable-length encoding. | uint64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="sint32" /> sint32 | Uses variable-length encoding. Signed int value. These more efficiently encode negative numbers than regular int32s. | int32 | int | int |
| <a name="sint64" /> sint64 | Uses variable-length encoding. Signed int value. These more efficiently encode negative numbers than regular int64s. | int64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="fixed32" /> fixed32 | Always four bytes. More efficient than uint32 if values are often greater than 2^28. | uint32 | int | int |
| <a name="fixed64" /> fixed64 | Always eight bytes. More efficient than uint64 if values are often greater than 2^56. | uint64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="sfixed32" /> sfixed32 | Always four bytes. | int32 | int | int |
| <a name="sfixed64" /> sfixed64 | Always eight bytes. | int64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="bool" /> bool |  | bool | boolean | boolean |
| <a name="string" /> string | A string must always contain UTF-8 encoded or 7-bit ASCII text. | string | String | str/unicode |
| <a name="bytes" /> bytes | May contain any arbitrary sequence of bytes. | string | ByteString | str |

Commit message:

No longer require agents to determine the agent ID
This updates the attestation flow to no longer require agent-side
plugins to calculate and provide the agent ID. If an agent ID is
provided, previous behavior is maintained across the agent and server.

When a server receives a CSR with an agent ID, it still determines
"attested before" status that it passes into the server-side plugin. It
verifies that the agent ID returned from the server-side plugin matches
that in the CSR.

If the CSR does not contain an agent ID, the server relies on
server-side plugins that do not support re-attestation to check if the
agent is already known via a new AgentStore host service.

All of the builtin plugins are updated to conform to the new
expectations. A base implementation is also provided for node attestors to
embed to ease the transition.

The agent node attestor unit tests are also revamped as part of
deprecating the functionality due to poor coverage and difficult setup
(increased coverage from ~65% to ~90%).

Signed-off-by: Andrew Harding <azdagron@gmail.com>

proto/spire/agent/nodeattestor/README_pb.md, after:

# Protocol Documentation
<a name="top"></a>

## Table of Contents

- [nodeattestor.proto](#nodeattestor.proto)
    - [FetchAttestationDataRequest](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.FetchAttestationDataRequest)
    - [FetchAttestationDataResponse](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.FetchAttestationDataResponse)
  
  
  
    - [NodeAttestor](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.NodeAttestor)
  

- [Scalar Value Types](#scalar-value-types)



<a name="nodeattestor.proto"></a>
<p align="right"><a href="#top">Top</a></p>

## nodeattestor.proto



<a name="spire.agent.nodeattestor.FetchAttestationDataRequest"></a>

### FetchAttestationDataRequest
Represents an empty request


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| challenge | [bytes](#bytes) |  |  |






<a name="spire.agent.nodeattestor.FetchAttestationDataResponse"></a>

### FetchAttestationDataResponse
Represents the attested data and base SPIFFE ID


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| attestation_data | [spire.common.AttestationData](#spire.common.AttestationData) |  | A type which contains attestation data for specific platform |
| DEPRECATED_spiffe_id | [string](#string) |  | SPIFFE ID for the agent. This field is deprecated and should no longer be set by implementers. The server-side plugin is now solely in charge of determining the SPIFFE ID for the agent |
| response | [bytes](#bytes) |  | response to the challenge (if challenge was present) * |





 

 

 


<a name="spire.agent.nodeattestor.NodeAttestor"></a>

### NodeAttestor


| Method Name | Request Type | Response Type | Description |
| ----------- | ------------ | ------------- | ------------|
| FetchAttestationData | [FetchAttestationDataRequest](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.FetchAttestationDataRequest) stream | [FetchAttestationDataResponse](#spire.agent.nodeattestor.FetchAttestationDataResponse) stream | Returns the node attestation data for specific platform and the generated Base SPIFFE ID for CSR formation |
| Configure | [.spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest](#spire.common.plugin.ConfigureRequest) | [.spire.common.plugin.ConfigureResponse](#spire.common.plugin.ConfigureResponse) | Applies the plugin configuration and returns configuration errors |
| GetPluginInfo | [.spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest](#spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoRequest) | [.spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoResponse](#spire.common.plugin.GetPluginInfoResponse) | Returns the version and related metadata of the plugin |

 



## Scalar Value Types

| .proto Type | Notes | C++ Type | Java Type | Python Type |
| ----------- | ----- | -------- | --------- | ----------- |
| <a name="double" /> double |  | double | double | float |
| <a name="float" /> float |  | float | float | float |
| <a name="int32" /> int32 | Uses variable-length encoding. Inefficient for encoding negative numbers – if your field is likely to have negative values, use sint32 instead. | int32 | int | int |
| <a name="int64" /> int64 | Uses variable-length encoding. Inefficient for encoding negative numbers – if your field is likely to have negative values, use sint64 instead. | int64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="uint32" /> uint32 | Uses variable-length encoding. | uint32 | int | int/long |
| <a name="uint64" /> uint64 | Uses variable-length encoding. | uint64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="sint32" /> sint32 | Uses variable-length encoding. Signed int value. These more efficiently encode negative numbers than regular int32s. | int32 | int | int |
| <a name="sint64" /> sint64 | Uses variable-length encoding. Signed int value. These more efficiently encode negative numbers than regular int64s. | int64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="fixed32" /> fixed32 | Always four bytes. More efficient than uint32 if values are often greater than 2^28. | uint32 | int | int |
| <a name="fixed64" /> fixed64 | Always eight bytes. More efficient than uint64 if values are often greater than 2^56. | uint64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="sfixed32" /> sfixed32 | Always four bytes. | int32 | int | int |
| <a name="sfixed64" /> sfixed64 | Always eight bytes. | int64 | long | int/long |
| <a name="bool" /> bool |  | bool | boolean | boolean |
| <a name="string" /> string | A string must always contain UTF-8 encoded or 7-bit ASCII text. | string | String | str/unicode |
| <a name="bytes" /> bytes | May contain any arbitrary sequence of bytes. | string | ByteString | str |
